gyrate	They danced and gyrated like tortured savages.	(a.) Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course. (n.) To revolve round a central point; to move spirally about an axis, as a tornado; to revolve.
spang	Occasional bullets buzzed in the air and spanged into tree trunks.	(v. t.) To spangle. (v. i.) To spring; to bound; to leap. (n.) A bound or spring. (n.) A spangle or shining ornament.
swad	Ye'd oughta see th' swad a' chil'ren I've got, an' all like that."	(n.) A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease. (n.) A clown; a country bumpkin. (n.) A lump of mass; also, a crowd. (n.) A thin layer of refuse at the bottom of a seam.
philippic	He seemed about to deliver a philippic.	(n.) Any one of the series of famous orations of Demosthenes, the Grecian orator, denouncing Philip, king of Macedon. (n.) Hence: Any discourse or declamation abounding in acrimonious invective.
jounce	 The youth turned once to look at the lashing riders and jouncing guns of the battery.	(v. t. & i.) To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions. (n.) A jolt; a shake; a hard trot.
sidle	 After a time he began to sidle near to the youth, and in a diffident way try to make him a friend.	(v. t.) To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening.
yokel	His mouth was agape in yokel fashion.	(n.) A country bumpkin.
dern	"I don't believe the derned old army's ever going to move.	(n.) A gatepost or doorpost. (a.) Hidden; concealed; secret. (a.) Solitary; sad.
brindle	When he had returned home his mother was milking the brindle cow.	(n.) The state of being brindled. (n.) A brindled color; also, that which is brindled. (a.) Brindled.
twiddle	For recreation he could twiddle his thumbs and speculate on the thoughts which must agitate the minds of the generals.	(v. t.) To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key. (v. i.) To play with anything; hence, to be busy about trifles. (n.) A slight twist with the fingers. (n.) A pimple.
bigg	You jest wait 'til to-morrow, and you'll see one of the biggest battles ever was.	(n.) Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind. (v. t.) To build. (n. & v.) See Big, n. & v.
boodle	"Of course it might happen that the hull kit-and-boodle might start and run, if some big fighting came first-off, and then again they might stay and fight like fun.	(n.) The whole collection or lot; caboodle. (n.) Money given in payment for votes or political influence; bribe money; swag.
felicitate	They expressed commiseration for that part of the army which had been left upon the river bank, felicitating themselves upon being a part of a blasting host.	(a.) Made very happy. (v. t.) To make very happy; to delight. (v. t.) To express joy or pleasure to; to wish felicity to; to call or consider (one's self) happy; to congratulate.
pilfer	 A rather fat soldier attempted to pilfer a horse from a dooryard.	(v. i.) To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft. (v. t.) To take by petty theft; to filch; to steal little by little.
catcall	 There were crows and catcalls showered upon him when he retreated without the horse.	(n.) A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.
skedaddle	 "Well," continued the youth, "lots of good-a-'nough men have thought they was going to do great things before the fight, but when the time come they skedaddled."	(v. i.) To betake one's self to flight, as if in a panic; to flee; to run away.
perambulate	Once, when the command had first come to the field, some perambulating veterans, noting the length of their column, had accosted them thus: "Hey, fellers, what brigade is that?"	(v. t.) To walk through or over; especially, to travel over for the purpose of surveying or examining; to inspect by traversing; specifically, to inspect officially the boundaries of, as of a town or parish, by walking over the whole line. (v. i.) To walk about; to ramble; to stroll; as, he perambulated in the park.
align	 When the regiment was aligned in another position each man's regard for his safety caused another line of small intrenchments.	(v. t.) To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline. (v. t.) To form in line; to fall into line.
bushwhacker	When that feller trod on his hand, he up an' sed that he was willin' t' give his hand t' his country, but he be dumbed if he was goin' t' have every dumb bushwhacker in th' kentry walkin' 'round on it.	(n.) One accustomed to beat about, or travel through, bushes. (n.) A guerrilla; a marauding assassin; one who pretends to be a peaceful citizen, but secretly harasses a hostile force or its sympathizers.
amputate	Th' dern doctor wanted t' amputate 'm, an' Bill, he raised a heluva row, I hear.	(v. t.) To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils. (v. t.) To cut off (a limb or projecting part of the body)
banshee	 A shell screaming like a storm banshee went over the huddled heads of the reserves.	(n.) Alt. of Banshie
firework	The regiment was like a firework that, once ignited, proceeds superior to circumstances until its blazing vitality fades.	(n.) A device for producing a striking display of light, or a figure or figures in plain or colored fire, by the combustion of materials that burn in some peculiar manner, as gunpowder, sulphur, metallic filings, and various salts. The most common feature of fireworks is a paper or pasteboard tube filled with the combustible material. A number of these tubes or cases are often combined so as to make, when kindled, a great variety of figures in fire, often variously colored. The skyrocket is a common form of firework. The name is also given to various combustible preparations used in war. (n.) A pyrotechnic exhibition.
straddle	He saw a man climb to the top of the fence, straddle the rail, and fire a parting shot.	(v. i.) To part the legs wide; to stand or to walk with the legs far apart. (v. i.) To stand with the ends staggered; -- said of the spokes of a wagon wheel where they join the hub. (v. t.) To place one leg on one side and the other on the other side of; to stand or sit astride of; as, to straddle a fence or a horse. (n.) The act of standing, sitting, or walking, with the feet far apart. (n.) The position, or the distance between the feet, of one who straddles; as, a wide straddle. (n.) A stock option giving the holder the double privilege of a "put" and a "call," i. e., securing to the buyer of the option the right either to demand of the seller at a certain price, within a certain time, certain securities, or to require him to take at the same price, and within the same time, the same securities.
foundry	He was grimy and dripping like a laborer in a foundry.	(n.) The act, process, or art of casting metals. (n.) The buildings and works for casting metals.
sprint	So he displayed the zeal of an insane sprinter in his purpose to keep them in the rear.	(v. i.) To run very rapidly; to run at full speed. (n.) The act of sprinting; a run of a short distance at full speed.
placid	 The face of a youthful rider, who was jerking his frantic horse with an abandon of temper he might display in a placid barnyard, was impressed deeply upon his mind.	(a.) Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle.
wallop	 He began to blithely roar at his staff:  "We 'll wallop 'im now.	(v. i.) To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop. (n.) A quick, rolling movement; a gallop. (v. i.) To boil with a continued bubbling or heaving and rolling, with noise. (v. i.) To move in a rolling, cumbersome manner; to waddle. (v. i.) To be slatternly. (v. t.) To beat soundly; to flog; to whip. (v. t.) To wrap up temporarily. (v. t.) To throw or tumble over. (n.) A thick piece of fat. (n.) A blow.
squawk	He imagined some strange voice would come from the dead throat and squawk after him in horrible menaces.	(v. i.) To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly. (n.) Act of squawking; a harsh squeak. (n.) The American night heron. See under Night.
enshrine	Individuals must have supposed that they were cutting the letters of their names deep into everlasting tablets of brass, or enshrining their reputations forever in the hearts of their countrymen, while, as to fact, the affair would appear in printed reports under a meek and immaterial title.	(v. t.) To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherish as something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.
gawk	He gawked in the direction of the fight.	(n.) A cuckoo. (n.) A simpleton; a booby; a gawky. (v. i.) To act like a gawky.
joggle	"Don't joggle so, Johnson, yeh fool," he cried.	(v. t.) To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog. (v. t.) To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart; sometimes, loosely, to dowel. (v. i.) To shake or totter; to slip out of place. (n.) A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly, applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the like.
